>> Welcome to User Events in Cocoa, my name is
Raleigh Ledet I'm a Cocoa Software Engineer.
We've got a lot to talk about today and it's
going to run the gamut of some beginner stuff
and some intermediate stuff and some more advanced stuff.
We're going to talk about Event Routing in a
Cocoa application which means we're also going
to spend a fair amount of time
talking about the Responder Chain.
And we're going to talk about the
new Gesture API that we have along
with the new Multi-Touch API that
we're introducing in Snow Leopard.
And we're going to finish this up by talking about how
you can get into the Event Queue and watch what's going
on with monitoring for events that are coming to
your application and events that aren't even coming
to your application that are actually
going to other applications.
Everything I'm going to be talking about here
today is specific to the Desktop Mac OS X.
If you're more interested in Multi-Touch Events on
iPhone please check out the Processing Multi-Touch Events
on iPhone session on Thursday at Pacific Heights at 9 AM.
You'll see during the talk this badge on occasion.
At various points in the talk we're going to talk
about areas where you can get into the Event Routing
and change how things flow in Cocoa and you can modify
where events go, so this is a badge to let you know
about some more advanced topics that you
might want to really pay attention to.
So let's get started; Event Routing.
When an event comes into your Cocoa application,
let's say a Swipe Event, it comes into NSApplication
and NSApplication looks at the event and tries to
figure out which window should this event go to.
That event will get sent to the NSWindow class and
that class looks at the event and figures out, oh,
this is a Swipe Event so which view should
I send this event to and it figures that out
and it calls the swipeWithEvent method on that view.
Let's take a look a little bit at this.
NSView inherits from NSResponder and it's
NSResponder that actually has the definition
for swipeWithEvent and the default implementation.
NSView inherits from NSResponder and NSControl inherits
from NSView which, of course, inherits from NSResponder.
So your classes generally are NSView
subclasses or NSControl subclasses
and you will automatically inherit
all the defined implementations --
the default implementations of
NSResponder's various event methods.
Here's an example of some of the event
methods that we have on NSResponder.
For Pointer Events, Touchpad Events, Keyboard Events,
you know, mouseDown, mouseDragged and for our example
that we're following right now swipeWithEvent.
You'll notice here that the pattern we follow
is it's the Event Type and, for instance,
the method name along with an event
so we pass in the event for you
so you can get further information in your method override.
Another thing that NSResponder
does for you, which is really nice,
is that it hangs on to something we called an nextResponder
which is just another NSResponder class of subclass,
and this allows us to quite literally chain these together
and we would call this by the obvious
name the Responder Chain.
So what happens once we have this all set up in a Responder
Chain is your swipeWithEvent comes in and NSWindow is going
to figure out which view to send this to first
and your view is a subclass of NSResponder
and if you don't override swipeWithEvent or
if you do and you call super swipeWithEvent
to let the default implementation handle
it the default implementation is just going
to pass this to the next responder for you.
And this continues up the Responder
Chain until there's no responders left
and the swipe just falls off the stack;
this is what happens for most events.
keyDown is one of the special events
where we do something slightly different.
When we get to the end if there's nobody else to
respond to the keyDown we'll issue a System Beep.
So if we put some subclasses on our Responder
Chain it might look something like this.
You got a button and a text field sitting
on top of a view inside of a window
and that looks a lot like the View Hierarchy.
Well that's not quite right as it turns
out because a window isn't a view.
A window contains a content view and in
our example the content view is going
to contain our view with our button in our text field.
Now the window here is a different color because
while it doesn't inherit from NSView it does inherit
from NSResponder, so when our Swipe Event comes
in if none of the views in the Responder Chain
down to the Content View handle it it'll
get forwarded automatically to NSWindow.
If you have an NSWindow subclass you can override
swipeWithEvent there and you can handle it.
NSWindow's default implementation just lets NSResponder's
default implementation do the work and that will forward it
to the next responder which is the NSWindow Controller, and
the NSWindow Controller is the last responder in this chain.
If you have a Window Controller attached
and if you have your own subclass you can --
this is the last point you can
decide to override swipeWithEvent
and handle it yourself if none of the other views have.
The great thing about Cocoa is this is all automatic.
You go into Interface Builder and you set up your
View Hierarchy Layout, you add your Window Controller,
assign it to the window and the Responder
Chain is set up for you automatically;
this even works if you add views programmatically.
So you just add subview to a view and the Responder
Chain is going to be set up for you automatically,
so there's nothing you have to
do to set it up it just works.
So that's the basics of the Responder Chain.
It's the key thing that's used in
Event Routing in a Cocoa application.
It's also used for a number of other places in
Cocoa applications, for example, Action Routing.
When you go in Interface Builder and you drag an
action normally from like a menu to FirstResponder
that action does Action Routing to figure out the
correct object in your View Hierarchy to send it to.
And actually with Action Routing it's a little bit different
in how they look at the Responder Chain because they'll pull
in things like the document class if
you're document based and they'll also look
at your window delegate and your document delegate.
And so the same thing goes with Automatic
Menu Enabling and Error Presentation.
They all use the Responder Chain slightly different
but they're heavily relying on the Responder Chain.
We're not going to have time to go into the other uses of
the Responder Chain we're going to focus on events today.
If you want more information you can just do
some Web searches here, these phrases will get --
the top link will get you to Apple's Documentation and I'll
also provide links at the end of the presentation directly
to the documentation if you want the full path links.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: We're going to talk about 2 types of
Event Types, Keyboard Events and Pointer Events
and we're going to start off with Keyboard Events.
Keyboard Events are probably one of the most
complex event types that Cocoa application routes.
There's a lot that goes on here before
the event even hits the Responder Chain.
The first thing that happens when a Keyboard Event
comes in is Cocoa's going to send it to the right window
and the NSWindow class is going to look at it.
Before that even we ask if it's a Key Equivalent.
If it's a Key Equivalent we're going to
perform the right Key Equivalent method for you
so with the Hit Command-A we're going to call Select
All or send that down the Action Routing System.
If they do a Command-N to open a new
document these are your Key Equivalents.
If it's not a Key Equivalent we ask
Is this a Key Interface Control?
A Key Interface Control is something like Control-F5 which
will actually move your keyboard focus up to the toolbar
for you, or Control-F2 which will actually move
your keyboard focus all the way up to the menu.
So if it's one of these Key Interface Controls we're going
to modify the key focus and it's
going to be handled for you.
And just to point out Tab isn't one of the special Key
Interface Controls that will actually go down further.
If it's not a Key Interface Control we then finally
figure out which view to send it to in the Responder Chain
to start the Event Routing through the
Responder Chain, and this is the FirstResponder.
The FirstResponder is the designated responder in
the Responder Chain when there's no other context
in the event we send it to this
designated responder as the FirstResponder.
The FirstResponder generally has the
blue circle around it, so, for example,
we have up here the buttons highlighted there for Add Rule.
On the other side we have the List
View's got the blue circle around it.
On the bottom we have the blue circle
around an item in the toolbar it's the one
that has key focus and is the FirstResponder in this case.
And on the other one we have a Text Code,
you see it has the blue ring around it.
So normally the key focus for the user they can easily
specify this by looking at what area has the blue focus
around it, that's going to be the FirstResponder.
You don't always -- not every control that's
FirstResponder has the blue focus around it, for example,
in Text Edit when you're typing away in the Content Area
we don't put a blue focus around the whole Content Area.
It's kind of obvious where the
FirstResponder is in that case.
So your view is the FirstResponder and keyDown
gets called in your view and you override keyDown
and you can now do your custom
implementation for the keyDown method
but what we suggest you do is simply call
interpretKeyEvents and pass in an array
with the event, and this will go to Key Bindings.
And the reason you want to let it go through
Key Bindings and let Cocoa interpret the event
for you is we will call back a whole bunch of
other methods depending on what the key is.
For example, if they use a Press Command-Right
Arrow we want to move to the beginning of the line,
Command-Left Arrow to the end of the line, move up or move
down in the document, all these different ways of moving.
We'll even recognize eMac commands so if you press
Command-Control-F we'll move forward for you.
So let Key Bindings do the hard work of looking at the
Keyboard Event, figuring out what the user intended to do
and you'll get consistent look and feel and user
interaction across applications on the system.
If it's one of these Key Binding events we will send
the appropriate action message and the event is handled.
If it's not a Key Binding event Key
Binding will then call back onto your view,
insert text and give you back the string so you
don't have to worry about the virtual key codes,
you don't have to deal with any of that, you don't have
to deal with the Unicode stuff you have an NSString
so you can easily enter NSString
wherever you need to do that.
So this also goes through the various input methods and
this deals with all the proper things it's doing, perhaps,
a Chinese character keyboard or various things
where there are multiple key codes coming in.
Let Cocoa do the hard work for
you, let Cocoa do the heavy lifting
and let Key Bindings do the work for
you with Interpret Keyboard Events.
Like I said, Keyboard Events' one of the
more complicated ones there was a lot there
so let's just do a quick brief
example to go over it real quick.
Let's say the user presses A on your keyboard.
First thing that happens is Cocoa asks is this a
Key Equivalent and it's not it's just the letter A
so then we ask is this a Key Interface Control and no it's
not so we figure out who's the FirstResponder in the window
and we call keyDown and this continues to go up
the Responder Chain but the FirstResponder happens
to be your view and you do the appropriate thing
and you just call interpretKeyEvents
so you let Key Bindings take over.
Key Bindings looks at the key and it says Is this one of
our Key Binding actions, no it's not it's just the letter A.
So we finally call back on [inaudible] view, Insert Text.
You get back a string and all you
have to do is the appropriate thing
and the letter A is put into your Text Field.
So there's a lot that goes on for something that seems
really simple but this handles all your Key Equivalents,
your Key Interface Control and all these Key Binding
actions, so let Cocoa do the heavy lifting for you.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So, Pointer Events.
Pointer Events are all these events associated with the
cursor and we use the cursor as the context to decide
where in the View Hierarchy that
we're going to send the event
to in the Responder Chain to start
it off in the Responder Chain.
So this will take care of your mouseDowns and your
mouseDraggeds and this actually includes the new Gestures
and the new Multi-Touch Events, so these are
all dependent upon where the cursor location is.
So let's look at a quick demo of Pointer Events.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So I have a little TargetGallery
application here and you can click in the targets
and they get a nice little green dot and if you miss we get
a system beep and we will go ahead and switch into Edit mode
and I can make this easier by just grabbing one of
these and, you know, making it move really slowly
or I can make it more difficult
by making it go way too fast.
Now we'll go back into Shooting mode and,
you know, I can try and hit the fast one.
I'm not that good I'll stick with the slow
one right there that works a lot better.
So, a fair number of interesting things has happened
right there and we're going to go over some of that.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So, we have mouseDowns
occurring and if we look back at our example
in this example the mouseDown is occurring over a button.
So the window is going to get the event and the window's
going to try and route it to the appropriate view,
and the way it does that is it looks at the View
Hierarchy and we turn that around and we do Hit Testing.
So NSWindow will ask its Content View do hitTest
and by default NSView looks at all of its subviews
and it does the appropriate Hit Testing on each one of
those subviews and those subviews ask their subviews
and this continues on down until finally we get to NSButton.
NSButton doesn't have any subviews and NSButton wants to
be the appropriate view for this event so it returns Self.
So NSWindow will then send the mouseDown Event to that
button and it will go down the Responder Chain from there.
Sorry -- will go up the Responder Chain from there.
But one of the great things about this is this is one
of those detour points I was talking about earlier.
In your class custom NSView you
can override hitTest and change
where in the Responder Chain Cocoa
is going to send the event.
So this is a great place for you to
interject yourself and we actually do
that in the sample, so we're going to show you that.
So here's that TargetGallery demo and what we have is a
custom Target View that contains all of our little targets.
And each target is actually another little subview and all
they do is draw a little target but they're a custom view
and they override the mouseDown Event so that
when you click in them they draw a little circle
in their view where you did the mouseDown.
But in the Target View overrides hitTest and if it's in the
Editing mode it returns Self and that stops the Hit Testing
from ever getting to any one of those Target Views and
the mouseDown and all the mouseDraggeds will then go
to the Target View, and this is how we're
able to actually move things around.
And if you notice in this example when we look at the
mouseDown if we're not editing we do the System Beep.
If we are editing we just let the mouse continue up the
Responder Chain as normal by calling super mouseDown Event
to get to the default implementation from NSResponder.
And what ends up happening in the sample code, I suggest
you check it out, is the controller implements mouseDown
and it is responsible for doing all
of the dragging of the subviews.
And I did this in the sample code to illustrate
how events flow through the Responder Chain
and where they end up, so you should really check that out.
Let's talk a little bit specifically
about Mouse Events in particular.
We're going to talk about a field called subtype.
We're going to talk about some best
practices and we're going to talk about when
to use the delta XY Values versus the locationInWindow.
So it turns out that there are more than 1
type of device that can generate Mouse Events.
Mice, obviously, Tablets and trackpads and you can
easily determine from your various Mouse Event,
mouseDown or mouseDragged, if you just
ask for the subtype from the event.
In the Mouse Event if it's from a mouse, you know it's
from a mouse, there's no other additional information
in the event other than what you normally think of with your
location in window and your deltaX and your deltaY values.
But if it's from a Tablet there
might be additional information.
Tablets, for example, can tell what the pressure is
applied to the tip of the device or what the tilt is
of the device on the Tablet, or its rotation.
And if your application can take advantage
of this extra information you can find
out if it's there by looking at the subtype.
I also suggest if you can take advantage of this information
that you look at tabletProximity and tabletPoint.
And tabletProximity is an event that will tell you more
information about exactly what that device supports.
Some devices support Tilt some don't so
you can get more information on what type
of device is being used and what it supports.
I'm not going to go into everything about Tablets but
you can do a search for a Cocoa Event-Handling Guide:
Handling Tablet Events and you
can get more information there.
You could also find out if the Mouse Event
is coming from a Touch device or a Trackpad.
There's no additional information in the event to get but
sometimes it's nice to know that it's coming from a Touch
so you can use this to make some decisions.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So, some Mouse Best Practices.
Tracking areas; tracking areas are the way that
you should go about doing roll-overs or try to find
out when the mouse enters in exit areas,
the different areas of your application.
You could try and look at all the Mouse Moves.
We generally don't issue the Mouse Moves for performance
but if you want the Mouse Moves you can go into NSWindow
and turn them on but they won't work exactly like you might
think so it's, particularly if it moves out of your view,
you -- the Mouse Moves are actually
sent to the FirstResponder, actually,
so you might not get the way you would think and your
roll-overs wouldn't work and it's harder to implement.
And it actually uses more of a performance problem
because you're looking at every single mouse move.
With Tracking Areas it's nice and easy
you set them up and you will be notified
when the mouse enters your tracking area and when it leaves.
If you want more information about Tracking Areas
you can search for Using the Tracking Area Objects.
Please use the three-method tracking approach.
What's the three-method tracking approach?
It's when you implement mouseDown,
mouseDragged and mouseUp in your view.
The other way of doing this is in the mouseDown is to do
NSNextEventMatchingMask and look for the events yourself
and do your own Tracking Loop, that will actually cause
problems and it will be one of the reoccurring mantras later
on during the talk where I say that Tracking Loops -- if
something goes into a Tracking Loop you can't do something.
So if you use the three-method approach
you don't run into that problem.
And Cocoa does something really nice for you here.
When the mouseDown occurs and it does its Hit Testing it
locks on to whatever view was returned from Hit Testing,
so all your mouseDraggeds until the
mouseUp occurs will continue to be sent
to that view even if the mouse is not in that view.
So if you're in a button and your mouseDown occurs in your
button you will continue to get mouseDraggedged events.
If your cursor moves out of your bounds you'll get
a mouseDraggedged event but you can easily test
that against your bounds and you
can un-highlight, for example.
When the mouseUp occurs you can test that against your
bounds and decide if it's appropriate to send the action.
But while you're doing your Mouse Tracking you
might want to consider looking at Drag Thresholds.
A lot of people don't do this.
But what Drag Threshold is is when a mouseDragged event
comes in don't start your dragging action right away wait
to find out if the user has moved the mouse a few pixels.
And the reason for this is my elderly next-door neighbors,
they got their computer and they constantly called me
over because they were having trouble
clicking on some different things.
And when they would go and they'd click with
the mouse they were using their whole hand
and their mouse would move a few pixels and sometimes this
would cause a drag or it wasn't an actual just a click
and so nothing would happen at all in various
applications and this was frustrating for them.
So you might want to look at Drag Thresholds as a
way of making sure that you do what the user intends
to do and not what they accidentally did.
Finally, deltaX and Y versus locationInWindow.
Why would you want to use one over the other?
Well, let's take a look at what
happens when you get it wrong.
We're going to drag this object with the mouse and
the object is no longer lining up with our cursor.
Now that doesn't make for a very good user experience.
Generally you'll want to use locationInWindow; this
is the default thing that you should be looking at.
When your mouseDragged Event occurs or your mouseDown Event
you get the locationInWindow from the event and you convert
in your view, you convert that location fromView nil
and this will convert from the Window Coordinate System
to your Views Coordinate System so now you
have a point in your Local Coordinate Space.
It's real easy for you to do things like test
if this point is within your view's bounds.
And you really want to use locationInWindow when
you need to align something with the cursor;
this is the best way to make sure that the cursor and
whatever you're dragging or you're doing stays in sync.
And it's also the best way and the easiest way to get
the Coordinate System to be localized into your view.
Because deltaX, deltaY, on the other hand, is actually
in screen pixels not in the points of the view
so it's a little bit harder to get that with Device
Resolution Independence it'll be harder to get
that into the localized location of the cursor.
deltaX and deltaY, what that actually is, for those
of you that don't know, is we will tell you the amount
of screen pixels that changed since the last mouse event.
And it's not actually screen pixels, because what can
happen is the mouse as the user drags it can get pinned
up against the screen but the user continues
to move the mouse in the same direction.
The deltaX and deltaY will change but the locationInWindow
will be the same because it's pinned against the screen;
this turns out to be really useful if you're
doing something like panning, or, for example,
you might have a modeling application and you want
to rotate the model so the user clicks on the model
and they start dragging the mouse
and you're rotating the object.
Well, even though the cursor hits up against the edge
of the screen the user might still want to continue
to rotate that object in the same direction.
They can continue to move their mouse and you can
look at deltaX and deltaY and continue your rotation.
So this is best used in a situation like that in
panning or, you know, through your model rotation
where the cursor location is really irrelevant
Other than, perhaps, starting the action.
Alright, let's move on to Gestures some of the new stuff.
So Gestures are another Pointer Event.
And it turns out that these Magnify, Rotate
and Swipe Gestures are there from 10.5.2.
We're publishing them for the first time in Snow Leopard
but these will work backwards compatible
back to 10.5.2, so that's kind of nice.
We use the cursor location to determine
where in the Responder Chain
to start sending the Magnified, the Rotate or a Swipe event.
So these are some textures in the Track Pad; this is
what a Magnify Event looks like, something like that.
And this is the NSResponder Method that you need to
override if you want to handle the Magnify Event.
magnifyWithEvent and you ask the event for the
magnification and you can get the change in magnification.
A Rotate looks something kind of like this, these are
the touch points on the Track Pad, these are Rotates
and you can get a rotateWithEvent if you ask the event for
the rotation and you'll actually get the delta Rotation
between the last Rotate Event, so you might need to
wait for the whole Rotate to complete if you want
to know what the complete rotation is for the whole Gesture
you'll need to combine all of the different deltas together.
And then you have Swipe where the user
can use 3 fingers and they can Swipe.
Looks something kind of like this.
There's 2 methods on Event you
need to look at, deltaX and deltaY.
You can use this to determine if they're
swiping up, down or left or right.
The left deltaX is 1 and if you swipe
right the deltaX will be negative 1.
Your deltaY will be 0 in that case
and you have the up being 1 for deltaY
and your deltaX will be 0 then your down being negative 1.
So that's Gestures really quick.
And then we have the new Multi-Touch API; this is going
to be brand new for Snow Leopard but we now allow you
to get the individual touches and not just the higher-level
Gesture, so this will be really great in some applications.
But the thing I need to get across here is a Track Pad
on the desktop is not a touch-screen on the iPhone.
There's going to be some fundamental differences here.
Namely that you have an indirect input method with the
Track Pad versus a direct input method with the phone.
With the phone you have a touch-screen and you want to --
the user wants to directly manipulate
what's underneath their finger.
Well, since you're not touching the screen on the desktop
we need some other kind of way of determining indirectly
where the user is trying to do their Multi-Touch and
what object on the screen are they trying to manipulate,
and the way we do that, again, is with the cursor.
So Multi-Touch Events are another Pointer Event.
So we use the cursor location to determine
where to send the Multi-Touch Event.
We do similar Hit Testing that we did for the mouse.
The difference is once Hit Testing is complete
we go up the View Hierarchy until we find a view
that is accepting touches and then we use that
view as the FirstResponder in the Responder Chain.
And similar, as I discussed with the 3-method approach
for dragging, once a touch has come down on the Track Pad
and we do Hit Testing all touches will continue to
go to that view even as the user adds more touches,
even if the cursor has moved until
all the touches have been released.
Once all the touches have been released
from the Track Pad and a new touch comes
in we will do Hit Testing again and
we will lock on to another view.
So let's give a quick demo of that.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So this is my hello,
world of Multi-Touch applications.
From what I've gathered the hello, world of
Multi-Touch applications the very first thing you need
to write is a LightTable, so there's my LightTable.
So I've drawn some images on here and you can do the normal
thing of grabbing a Drag Handle with the mouse and moving
that around and changing your sizes and we can
double-click and we can change the size inside the mask and,
well I can't grab my Drag Handle anymore
without repositioning everything.
Well, this is one of the great places
that Multi-Touch comes in handy.
So this LightTable's also Multi-Touch aware so I'm
going to start using 2 fingers on the Track Pad
without grabbing a Drag Handle I can
just resize this exactly how I want
and we can double-click to get out of Editing.
We can move the whole thing around and it's great because
I can pin one side and stretch it or move just the top
or just the bottom whatever I need to do there,
and we'll bring that around, say, right there.
And this application also looks at Gestures so
I can use 3 fingers and I can Swipe in the tools
and I can adjust the frame thickness, perhaps, and
we'll crank up the corner radius and make this more
like a circle there, that's kind of nice.
And so, again, I'm using Multi-Touch so I don't have to
worry about grabbing the little bitty Drag Handles as long
as my cursor's over the image for this
particular application I know what I'm going
to be adjusting so I can adjust this one over here.
And so this is an example of using Multi-Touch.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So Multi-Touch on the desktop is
very similar to Multi-Touch on the iPhone as far
as the API but there are some subtle differences.
We now have an NSTouch Object similar to
a UITouch and we have Phases on the Touch
which are also similar to the Phases on UITouch.
For example, when a Touch first comes down on to the
Trackpad you see a little dot that's a Touch coming down.
The Touch moves into the NSTouch
Phase Began that's this phase.
As the user starts moving the Touch on the Track
Pad the Touch moves into the NSTouch Phase Moved.
Perhaps they leave it stationary and they have another
Touch coming in and out so while the Touch is stationary
and there are other Touch things going on the Touch
is moved into the Stationary Phase and it'll move --
the Touch might move back and forth between Stationary
and Moved and eventually your Touch is going to get
down to Ended when the user finally
lifts their finger off of the Track Pad.
And at any point in time the Touches might have actually
been cancelled, the system might have cancelled the Touches,
for example, because you've clicked out of the
application even though you were tracking Touches
in one window you've clicked out of the application your
application's lost focus we will cancel the Touches.
We also have an Identity.
For those of you who are familiar with the iPhone you'll
notice that this is something we don't have on the iPhone.
On the iPhone Touches are mutated in place but the way
Events work on the desktop is they're an immutable event
so all the Touches inside the event
must be immutable as well.
So Identity is a way that you can
track a Touch as it moves over time.
For example, a Touch A comes down and it starts moving and
then Touch B comes in you need to know which one is Touch A
and which one is Touch B and Identity
is how you determine that.
You need to be sure to use isEqual.
It's an object that supports the Coppering Protocols
so that you can stick these in a dictionary,
so you can use your Touch 1 as your key in a dictionary and
when future events come in you can compare that against --
you can take the Identity out of your set of Touches
from the event and use that as a key in your dictionary
or if you want to do it yourself just use the isEqual to
compare 2 Touches to find out which 2 they are over time.
We also have an isResting property;
this is different than Stationary.
On the new trackpads they don't have a button so like on
the image up there there's no external physical button
on the trackpad and what we allow you to do is you can rest
your thumb on the trackpad as you move the cursor around
and then, perhaps, use your thumb to click,
and it might look something like this.
You touch and you're moving around and you bring your thumb
down and you click and you do a drag somewhere in there
and you notice the little gray
Touch was wiggling a little bit.
Resting doesn't mean stationary it generally means that it
can be ignored, and so it might move around a little bit.
It might be the thumb that we're ignoring
and it could be in this resting phase.
If it moves too far or it moves higher
into the right location it might turn
into an Active Touch and then isResting will return No.
So since this isn't a touch-screen we can't
give you locations in your view or on the screen
where the Touch is occurring so we give
you a normalized position between 0
and 1 so you can find out where
the Touch is on the trackpad.
And so you have to, again, indirectly manipulate things.
Well we also give you the device
size of the trackpad in case you want
to know the actual physical dimensions
of how far they moved.
The device sizes and points, 72 points per inch.
And so if you take the normalized position and you
just simply multiply that times the device size
and that will get you the physical
distance from the lower-left-hand corner
of the trackpad over to where the Touch is.
There's also a Device Property and this is mainly used for
in case there are multiple Touch devices on your computer.
In an Event the collection of Touches will only be
associated with one device at a time so if the user is
on multiple devices entering touches you'll get separate
events with their own collection of touches just
for that device; this is one way
to determine the difference.
An interesting thing about this is if touches are coming
from multiple devices the Identity
will actually be unique across devices.
Multi-Touch is completely opted in on the desktop.
On NSView you have to call setAcceptsTouchEvents Yes.
If there are not any views in the window that
accepts touches, Touches won't even be routed
to that window it won't even come in
and that's a performance optimization,
so you must opt-in to Touches if you want them.
Once one view accepts touches,
touches will be sent to that window.
You can also decide if you want resting touches.
By default we don't send you resting touches.
Generally resting touches can be ignored and when
they're ignored we don't even include them in the set.
If you're not accepting resting touches they're
not even included in the set of touches.
If a touch does move from a resting stage to an active stage
and you're ignoring resting touches we will fake that out
to be a Touch Began at the point they become active.
If they transition from Active to
Inactive we'll actually go ahead
and issue a Touches Ended if you're
ignoring Resting Touches.
Generally leave setWantRestingTouches at its default value.
No the user's not intending to anything with that
touch but if you have some special application
and you want resting touches you can look at
the isResting phase and make up your own mind.
Another quick point with Resting Touches, when they are
ignored they are not included in the Hit Testing either.
So earlier when I described the first touch that
comes down and we do the Hit Testing when we lock on.
If you're ignoring Resting Touches they're not
included in that Hit Testing until they become active.
These are the Responder Methods you need
to implement if you want to accept touches,
and when you implement them please be sure to implement
them all, touchesBeganWithEvent, touchesMovedWithEvent,
touchesEndedWithEvent and touchesCancelledWithEvent.
For those of you familiar with the iPhone you'll notice
this looks slightly different; this is to keep in consistent
with the other event methods that we have on NSResponder
it's the Event Type and followed by an Event Parameter.
So I mentioned earlier to implement
them all and the reason you do that is,
perhaps you are implementing just
touchesBeganWithEvent and there's another view higher
up in the Responder Chain that's also touch-aware.
If you're eating up all the touchesBegan and
you don't implement touchesEnded, for example,
and they all of a sudden get some touchesEnded they might
get confused because they never got the touchesBegan,
so if you implement touchesBegan please implement all
of these methods especially the touchesCancelled in case
that happens you need to be able to back out your state.
So the iPhone says touchesBegan and they pass you in a set
with Event and we don't provide you that set because we want
to keep consistent with all of
our method names on the desktop.
But on NSEvent the way you get this set of
Touches is you ask touchesMatchingPhaseinView
and you pass your own view as your view.
So in touchesBegan if you wanted to begin Touches you can
just say NSTouchPhaseBegan and you will get all the Touches
that began in the touchesBeganWithEvent, though you
might want to ask for the Moved and the Stationery's.
Well, this turns out to be a bit field so you can ask in the
MatchingPhase you can say Give Me the NSTouch Phase Moved
or with the NSTouch Phase Stationary and
you will get all the stationary touches
and all the moved touches, so that might come in handy.
But what we think you're going to want most of the time
is all the touches that are touching give me the touches
that are just began, the moved and the stationary.
If they've ended I don't care.
If they've been canceled I don't care about those.
And we have predefined values for you you can just
say NSTouchPhaseTouching and that is equivalent
to saying NSTouchPhaseBegan or'ed with
NSTouchPhaseMoved or'ed with NSTouchPhaseStationary.
And another one that might come in handy that
we predefined for you is NSTouchPhaseAny.
If you just want all of the Touches and you want
to inspect the properties, inspect the phase,
inspect the isResting states and make up your
own mind you can just ask for NSTouchPhaseAny.
So in the sample code we were tracking touches and
this is what the touchesBeganWithEvent looks like.
The first thing we do is I want to know what
touches are currently touching the device.
I know at least 1 touch began, perhaps, 2 began,
perhaps this is the second or third or fourth touch,
so we get the set of touches that
are currently touching and we find
out how many touches are currently touching the Trackpad.
If it's 2 we want to go ahead and set up for 2-Touch
tracking and then we'll do our 2-Touch tracking
after a threshold in the touchesMovedWithEvent.
If it's more than 2 touches it's a third touch or a
fourth touch then I'm just going to get out of Dodge
and cancel tracking because I only want to track 2 touches.
And if it's less than 2 touches because
it's only 1 touch that just came
down the very first touch I'm just
going to ignore it and not do anything.
Of course I don't want to set up any tracking I
don't want to track 1 touch, which brings up a couple
of interesting points some best practices for Multi-Touch.
Another interesting difference between the iPhone and the
desktop is the touches can also be issuing Mouse Events
and Touch Events at the same time
because you're moving the mouse cursor.
So you'll need to take that into
consideration on when you're looking
at each individual touch and when you want to track touches.
At the same time at a higher level we might have interpreted
a Gesture so while we're sending out Touch Events we'll send
out a Gesture or we might just be
sending out individual Touch Events.
So you might need to selectively decide when you want to
ignore the mouse, when you want to ignore certain Gestures
or when you want to ignore the Touches; this is where
it comes in real handy earlier looking at the subtype
of a Mouse Event and seeing that the
Mouse Event is coming from a touch device.
If you know you want to selectively ignore Mouse Events
while you're tracking something else that's a great way
of doing that.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: Another thing we have
is to consider Tracking Thresholds.
So even though the user has 1 finger and they're doing
something with 1 finger and they bring a second finger
down they might have accidentally brushed the trackpad.
Well, you don't necessarily want to go into 2
tracking and all of a sudden magnify something
when that's not what the user wanted or intended.
So just like Mouse Events you should consider using
Tracking Thresholds in your Multi-Touch tracking.
Since we have Gesture Events going on and they're captured
at a higher level you'll want to consider forwarding these
to the next responder when you're
not specifically ignoring them.
Let these flow through the Responder Chain because
often what'll end up happening, for example,
Safari it's more like the Window Controller
that is going to handle the Swipe Gesture
or some of these higher level gestures
you go backwards and forward in the view.
In the LightTable example when I pulled up the tools
that was actually done at the controller level,
at the Window Controller and not in the View.
The View had no concept that these tools existed.
So I went ahead and forward the Gesture Events
when I wasn't ignoring them up the Responder Chain,
got to the Window Controller and
I appropriately showed the tools
or hid the tools depending on what
type of Swipe Event it was.
So you need to take that into consideration as well.
So we have these Multi-Touches, individual Multi-Touches
and we have these Gestures, the higher level thing.
When do you use Gestures and when
do you use the Multi-Touch Events?
Well, it comes down to a question
of what are you really trying to do?
If possible let Apple do the hard work for you
and let it recognize the event at a higher level.
So if you're doing a Magnify and that's all you're really
doing because you don't care about the exact position.
For example on the LightTable application I
could pin one side and just expand one side out,
so I need to look at the individual
touches to determine that.
But if it was some other kind of control or the image
was fixed and you just wanted to Magnify it in place
or it's like your whole view you're magnifying the whole
view then let Apple do the high-level magnify recognition
for you, and the same thing with Rotate and Swipe.
And as it turns out if you were to actually look at the
individual touches associated with the Gesture and try
and do your own magnify because of
resting and when touches might be canceled
and some various other little aspects
you might not get a magnify
with 2 touches you might only actually
see 1 touch in various things like this.
And so don't worry about the complication that's
going on there let Apple do the hard work for you
when it's appropriate, when there are occasions
where you need to know the exact individual touch
because it makes sense to pin something
on one side versus the other then go ahead
and use touchesBegan, Moved, Ended and Canceled.
So that's Multi-Touch.
It's rather a small API there's not that much there.
It's really fun to play around with.
I suggest that you download the LightTable
application and play with it yourself.
And also make your own LightTable application.
I want to see a flurry of them out there
on the Web that would be really awesome.
Now let's talk a little bit about Event Big Brother.
So we're going to start monitoring events that are
going on on your app and elsewhere in the system.
And the first thing you need to
know is a couple of funnel points.
We talked earlier that when an external event comes in
such as a keyboard or mouse event it goes to NSApplication.
Where it actually goes is through
NSApplication Send Event Method.
So you can have your own custom NSApplication Class,
you can override Send Event, you can get the event,
you can look at it, you can determine what type it is, you
can route it to a different window, you can just let it fall
on the floor or you can call super sendWithEvent and let
NSApplication continue processing the event as normal,
or you can let application route that event down to NSWindow
and you can have your own custom
NSWindow that overrides SendEvent.
NSWindow uses the same method and you can look at the
window level once you know it's going to the right window
and you can now route an event by inspection to the right
view to the right place or let it fall on the floor,
or call super and let it continue on its merry way.
And that's fine and dandy but it's kind of a pain sometimes
to create your own NSApplication subclass and then go
into Interface Builder and set the
primary class and deal with all that.
We have some new things in Snow Leopard
which are really nice called Event Monitor.
We have Local monitors and Global monitors.
Local monitors are a way that you could easily monitor
an event that is already targeted to your application
so you won't need to override SendofEnded
NSApplication you can install an Event Monitor
at the appropriate place inside your
class and it works out really nicely.
And then we have Global Event Monitors which
is a way of monitoring vents that are going
on that aren't specifically targeted to your application.
If that event is targeted to another application
you'll be able to see that event on the Global monitor.
So at no time if you have both a Local and a Global
monitor you won't get the same event coming through both
at the exact same time because it's either targeted
to your app or it's not, and that's how you decide
if you need a Local monitor or a Global monitor.
So let's look at this at a little bit more detail.
I want to point out, again, that the Local monitor
and the Global monitor are a new API in Snow Leopard
and this is what the API looks like for a Local monitor.
It's a Class Event on NSEvent so you just
call AddLocalMonitorForEventMatchingMask
and you pass it a block as a handler.
And you'll also happen to notice
that this block returns an NSEvent.
So with the Local Event Monitoring you can not only
monitor the events that's coming through the system
but before the NSApplication routes them you can change
the event, put in a different event or just return NIL
and end processing from there,
so this comes in really handy.
You might want to be careful if you have
multiple Event Monitors all watching
for the same event in your application.
If one of the Event Monitors returns NIL it won't get past
to the other event handlers -- Event Monitors I should say.
And here's one of those places where you
don't get events that are in a tracking loop
so if there's a mouse tracking loop going on in
NSEventMatchingMask that bypasses the normal flow of events
through Cocoa and you won't get
them, you can't monitor them.
And finally, the Local monitor for Mask when
you add a new one you get back a Monitor Object.
You need to hold on to this object because you'll need
to remove it using the Remove API but you don't need
to retain it, Cocoa is going to handle the memory for you.
This is the Global monitor it is also a Class
Event, AddGlobalMontiorForEventsMatchingMask.
So events that are not targeted to your application
already will come in on your Global monitor.
For those of you familiar with the Monitor Target
on the Carbon API when you can add a handle
for a Monitor Target; this is our Cocoa equivalent.
And it has the same limitations in that you
can observe only, you can't modify the events
and you generally don't get Keyboard Events this
way unless you have User Assistive Devices turned on
and Accessibility Preferences or you're
a Trusted Accessibility Application.
And I want to point out that in both the Global monitor
and the Local monitor's you can't get Keyboard Events
in Secure Fields so you can't sniff passwords this way.
And as we pointed out you can't modify
the event so there is nothing to return.
And similar to the Local Event Monitor you get back
an Event Monitor Object and just hold on to it.
You don't need to retain it but you will need to remove it.
And this is how we remove the Event Monitors.
So Cocoa is going to manage the memory for you.
We are going to take care of the Run Loop,
take care of all the appropriate things
that need to be done with your Event Monitor.
You just need to tell us when to get
rid of it, so you need to pass it back
to us and tell us to remove the Event Monitor.
And you must explicitly do this none of this is going to get
done for your automatically not even for Garbage Collection.
So let's take a quick demo of Event Monitoring.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So I have an application here
that looks at the Tablet and it can tell
when you bring the device near the Tablet; this
is a Proximity Event I was talking about earlier.
And, you know, Tablet's kind of neat.
You can find out when you're using the opposite end of
the pen and know that the user actually intends to erase.
That's one of the kind of really neat things but
generally Proximity Events are something you want to send
to all the Tablet-aware objects in your
application and this view over here -- if I come --
now I can get things there but the other
one's not getting it; this isn't what we want.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to use Event Monitors to track this.
So we're going to quit that and
we're going to come into Xcode here.
Here's our Tablet Proximity Event Method Override and we
look at -- we only care if it's an Entering Proximity.
If the device is leaving we set the image to No.
If we look at the pointing device type on entry and we
decide if it's a pointing device we'll show the pen.
If it's an eraser pointing device,
we have pen pointing device
and eraser pointing device; we'll show the eraser image.
And Tablet's actually have a cursor
pointing device or a puck or a mouse,
other definitions you might hear
and we'll show the mouse image here.
So we've already set up in this application a couple
of menus to toggle adding a Local monitor on and off
and to add a Global monitor on and off, so
we'll go ahead and fill in the definitions here.
Since it's a toggle we have an
IVAR for a Local Event Monitor.
If we already have one then we want to turn it off and
we will remove the monitor and set our Local IVAR to NIL.
Otherwise we need to go ahead and add one so we'll
do that real quick for NSEvent and add Local monitor
for Matching Mask NSTablet Proximity Mask
and so this is the way we do a handler.
You've probably have been to some of
these sessions -- NSEvent -- Start Event.
So we'll open up our block and we'll go ahead and close
our block and then close the method and add our semi-colon.
And so when our block gets called we already have a Tablet
Proximity Method that's going to do all the right thing
with the images for us so all we need to do is on self
call Tablet Proximity then pass in the event and that --
so now we need to return because
this is a Local Event Monitor.
We don't need to modify the event we're going to let
the event go through the normal processing and let it go
through all the Local monitors and we'll now go ahead and
set up our Global Event Monitor because we want to know
when we're in the background we also
want to know what the current state
of the device is on the Tablet so we're always in sync.
So it does the exact same thing about
removing the monitor if it already exists,
but if we need to create a new one we just
do NSEvent@GlobalEventMonitor this time
and we need to look for the Proximity Event.
Proximity Mask and we will go ahead and set up our handler.
Open our block, close the whole thing.
And, again, we'll just do the same thing
here when the background it's going
to be real simple we'll just pass the event on to
our handler as it already exists and we don't need
to return anything this time it's just a Global
Event Monitor we can't modify the event in any way.
So we'll go ahead and make sure that builds, it
does, great, so here's our application again.
And this time when we come in with the Tablet it's still
doing the same thing because we have it set on a Menu Toggle
so we will go ahead and turn on the Local Event Monitoring.
Now that we have the Local Event Monitoring
you see that both windows are getting updated.
So inside of each window they have that same view that
we just modified so each view adds a Local Event Monitor
so they both get their call back
and they're both doing the same code
so they'll just display the appropriate brush or eraser.
Now, if we're in the background say we come into
the Finder you notice it doesn't get any changes.
So let's go ahead and turn on our Background Toggle.
We'll go ahead and turn on the
Global Event Monitoring, there we go.
So we have our Local Event Monitoring and now that --
if we bring Finder to the foreground
we're not the target application anymore
and the Global Event Monitor is
getting called for us and we can --
this application can maintain the appropriate
state even though it's in the background.
So that's one of my favorite uses of Event Monitors.
[Applause] Thank you.
>> Raleigh: So a word of caution about Event Monitors.
There can be a potential performance impact here.
If you actually install a Global Event Monitor for
all the mouse moves we'll send you all the mouse moves
and that could potentially be a
lot of information coming through.
If you set a Global Event Monitor and put a
matchEventMask you'll get all sorts of stuff and, you know,
this can have an impact on the system
so you really need to be careful.
When you use a Global Event Monitor make sure
it's the appropriate thing for what you want to do
that there isn't a better way to
do what you're trying to do.
While the Tablet is a great example I
want to give you one more example briefly.
Say you want to do your own custom cell tracking which, in
a list, which actually brings up another window and you want
to know when the user clicks out of this window
because you just want to have that window go away.
That works great normally unless the mouseDown occurs
outside your window if you're not doing a tracking loop.
But if the mouseDown occurs outside of
your application's windows it's going to go
to some other application even though that application's
in the background the mouseDown's going to go
to that application and bring that
application to the foreground.
Well, if you install a Global Event Monitor and
you look for just the mouseDown you'll be notified
when that occurs outside of your application you can
close your window, you can let your application go
into background, turn off your Event Monitor and it's a
nice way of solving the problem without too much overhead.
And you have the completion block, the handler block in
the Event Monitor so it's nice and localized right there
where you need it and you don't have some
custom subclass of NSApplication just
to do this little thing, so it'll
keep your code nice and clean.
[ Background noise ]
>> Raleigh: So we've looked at a
whole bunch of different stuff.
We've looked at Event Routing.
We've looked at how you can come in and you can change
the way that events are routed through the system
and we've looked at Multi-Touch and Gestures.
We have the TargetGallery and the
LightTable demos that I've done.
Their code is out there you can go and
get them from the Attendee website,
download them, play with them, check them out.
And here are the links that I promised earlier for all
the different search fields that I had shown earlier.
I'll keep this slide up for a few seconds
for anybody that wants to attempt to try
and copy down that long link, and here's some more.
And as always please go ahead and take
a look at the Cocoa Release Notes.
You can get to those from the documentation
right out of Xcode you can go and look at them.
Lots of good information in there.